doc/erc-20x-draft.md, before:

# A simple proposal for standards on cross-chain ERC-20 transfers

There is broad-based demand for standardization of cross-chain transfers of ERC-20 tokens. (See for example [this proposal from Optimism](https://ethereum-magicians.org/t/outlining-a-standard-interface-for-cross-domain-erc20-transfers/6151).) We at Axelar are seeking feedback on a proposal targetting the following goals:

- Simplicity and flexibility.
- This standard should be abstract enough to facilitate token transfer to both EVM and non-EVM chains.
- The caller doesn’t need to know how cross-chain transfers are implemented.

The idea is to add a `transferXChain` method that behaves like a conventional `transfer` except it also accepts a `destChain` argument. Similarly, we add `allowanceXChain`, `approveXChain`, `transferFromXChain` methods and accompanying events `TransferXChain`, `ApprovalXChain`. Taking inspiration from [ERC-223](https://github.com/ethereum/EIPs/issues/223), we also add a generic `auxiliaryData` argument to these new methods so as to facilitate additional features at the discretion of the implementer.

With these items in mind, the new interface might look something like:

```solidity
interface IERC20XChain is IERC20 {
    function transferXChain(
        bytes recipient,
        uint256 amount,
        bytes recipientChain, // new
        bytes auxiliaryData   // new
    ) external returns (bool);

    function approveXChain(
        bytes spender,
        uint256 amount,
        bytes spenderChain, // new
    ) external returns (bool);

    function allowanceXChain(
        address owner,
        bytes spender,
        bytes spenderChain, // new
    ) external view returns (uint256);

    function transferFromXChain(
        bytes sender,
        bytes recipient,
        uint256 amount,
        bytes recipientChain, // new
        bytes senderChain,    // new
        bytes auxiliaryData,  // new
    ) external returns (bool);

    event TransferXChain(
        bytes indexed from,
        bytes indexed to,
        uint256 value,
        bytes toChain,       // new
        bytes fromChain,     // new
        bytes auxiliaryData  // new
    );

    event ApprovalXChain(
        address indexed owner,
        bytes indexed spender,
        uint256 value,
        bytes spenderChain, // new
    );
}
```

## Notes

- The implementer has complete flexibility in how to interpret the bytes of `recipientChain` and how to execute the remote transfer. For example, the implementer could use a cross-chain platform such as Axelar.
- The `recipientChain` is `bytes` to afford maximum flexibility. EVM-compatible chains already have a unique `uint256` chain ID but non-EMV-compatible chains are not guaranteed to have such a convenient chain ID. We recommend a separate standard on a universal convention for which `bytes` sequences correspond to which chains.
- The `recipient` is now `bytes` to afford maximum flexibility for the address format in the destination chain. (For most chains an address fits into a `bytes32` but we do not wish to preclude chains with longer addresses.)
- `recipientChain` need not be different from the current chain. Presumably, implementers would optimize their implementation for this special case so as not to spam cross-chain infrastructure.
- `approveXChain` and `allowanceXChain` have a new `spenderChain` argument so that the spender's address can reside on a different chain.
  - Example: Alice holds token T on chain A, approves Bob on chain B. Bob can post a tx to chain B that sends Alice's tokens from chain A to Charlie on another chain C. Alice's approval of Bob on chain B should be restricted only to chain B---Bob should not be able to use this approval to send tokens on Alice's behalf from any chain other than B.
  - It is the responsibility of the implementer to execute and enforce this behaviour.
- Possible uses of `auxiliaryData`:
  - Define the unlocking condition for a token returning to its native chain.
  - Execute functions elsewhere outside of this token transfer.
  - Point to a specific on-chain mapping `chain bytes -> chain name`.

Commit message:

bytes -> string for addresses and chains

doc/erc-20x-draft.md, after:

# A simple proposal for standards on cross-chain ERC-20 transfers

There is broad-based demand for standardization of cross-chain transfers of ERC-20 tokens. (See for example [this proposal from Optimism](https://ethereum-magicians.org/t/outlining-a-standard-interface-for-cross-domain-erc20-transfers/6151).) We at Axelar are seeking feedback on a proposal targetting the following goals:

- Simplicity and flexibility.
- This standard should be abstract enough to facilitate token transfer to both EVM and non-EVM chains.
- The caller doesn’t need to know how cross-chain transfers are implemented.

The idea is to add a `transferXChain` method that behaves like a conventional `transfer` except it also accepts a `destChain` argument. Similarly, we add `allowanceXChain`, `approveXChain`, `transferFromXChain` methods and accompanying events `TransferXChain`, `ApprovalXChain`. Taking inspiration from [ERC-223](https://github.com/ethereum/EIPs/issues/223), we also add a generic `auxiliaryData` argument to these new methods so as to facilitate additional features at the discretion of the implementer.

With these items in mind, the new interface might look something like:

```solidity
interface IERC20XChain is IERC20 {
    function transferXChain(
        string recipient,
        uint256 amount,
        string recipientChain, // new
        bytes auxiliaryData    // new
    ) external returns (bool);

    function approveXChain(
        string spender,
        uint256 amount,
        string spenderChain, // new
    ) external returns (bool);

    function allowanceXChain(
        address owner,
        string spender,
        string spenderChain, // new
    ) external view returns (uint256);

    function transferFromXChain(
        string sender,
        string recipient,
        uint256 amount,
        string recipientChain, // new
        string senderChain,    // new
        bytes auxiliaryData,   // new
    ) external returns (bool);

    event TransferXChain(
        string indexed from,
        string indexed to,
        uint256 value,
        string toChain,       // new
        string fromChain,     // new
        bytes auxiliaryData   // new
    );

    event ApprovalXChain(
        address indexed owner,
        string indexed spender,
        uint256 value,
        string spenderChain, // new
    );
}
```

## Notes

- The implementer has complete flexibility in how to interpret `recipientChain` and how to execute the remote transfer. For example, the implementer could use a cross-chain platform such as Axelar.
- The `recipientChain` is `string` to afford maximum flexibility. EVM-compatible chains already have a unique `uint256` chain ID but non-EMV-compatible chains are not guaranteed to have such a convenient chain ID. We recommend a separate standard on a universal convention for which `string` sequences correspond to which chains.
- The `recipient` is now `string` to afford maximum flexibility for the address format in the destination chain. (For most chains an address fits into a `bytes32` but we do not wish to preclude chains with longer addresses.)
- `recipientChain` need not be different from the current chain. Presumably, implementers would optimize their implementation for this special case so as not to spam cross-chain infrastructure.
- `approveXChain` and `allowanceXChain` have a new `spenderChain` argument so that the spender's address can reside on a different chain.
  - Example: Alice holds token T on chain A, approves Bob on chain B. Bob can post a tx to chain B that sends Alice's tokens from chain A to Charlie on another chain C. Alice's approval of Bob on chain B should be restricted only to chain B---Bob should not be able to use this approval to send tokens on Alice's behalf from any chain other than B.
  - It is the responsibility of the implementer to execute and enforce this behaviour.
- Possible uses of `auxiliaryData`:
  - Define the unlocking condition for a token returning to its native chain.
  - Execute functions elsewhere outside of this token transfer.
  - Point to a specific on-chain mapping `chain string -> chain data`.
